README.md, before:

# .NET Development in a Container #

I like the idea of developing in .NET without having to install stuff on my actual laptop.  If you're a .NET Developer, you probably feel the same way.  This repo aims to showcase how somebody could do that by leveraging VS Code's Remote Development extension, a top-level Dockerfile for your workstation, and some powershell magic to get remote container debugging to work smoothly.

## Anatomy ##
* *automation*, which contains, scripts for you to run when you want to initialize a new project.
* *Dockerfile*, this is your "workstation Dockerfile", where you will use VS Code's Containers Remote Development functionality to bootstrap a brand new .net 5 workstation without installing anything new on your physical machine.
* *project folders*, all of your projects should be placed in folders at the root of this repo, as siblings to the testapi project this repo is initialized with.

`testapi` is an example of a webapi project with automation written for remote debugging into the webapi container.
SSH and VSDBG must be configured in order to allow for the "remote debugging" capabilities to work on a linux container.  Thankfully, all of the powershell in this repo handles that for you. :)

More info here: https://github.com/OmniSharp/omnisharp-vscode/wiki/Attaching-to-remote-processes

All scripts must be run in a `pwsh` shell.

## Initializing a Project ##
When adding a new project to this repo, make sure to place it at the same level as where testapi is now. From there, run `./automation/initproject.ps1`.  For example to create the testapi project, I ran: 
```
dotnet new webapi --name testapi; 
./automation/initproject.ps1 testapi;
```

`initproject` will create a debugger profile for you and add some automation scripts in the project folder.

## Interacting With a Project ##
*All of the following docs are for interacting with automation at the project level.  This means that all commands are against the automation folder in the project, and not to be confused by the top-level automation folder.*

### Building ###

To build your dotnet application and place it into a non-prod, debuggable container, run `./automation/build.ps1`.  

This will build your .net and place it in a container whose name is the same as your project folder name.

### Running ###

To run an instance of your project, run `./automation/run.ps1`.  This will run `docker run`, capture the IP address assigned to the container, and automatically update your debug profile to point to that new IP.

By default, your container's ports will be open only to your development container.  If you would like to bind the ports to one of your containers to your physical machine, change the arguments passed to `docker run` in the `./automation/run.ps1`.

A common scenario is exposing port 80 and/or 443 so that you can use your physical computer's browser to interact with your application.

For that, you would add the arguments: `-p 80:80 -p 443:443` to the `docker run` command.

For more information on exposing ports, refer to this: https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/#publish-or-expose-port--p---expose

### Debugging ###

Debugging code in a container is in many ways just like debugging code on a remote machine.  For Omnisharp, which is the VS Code Extension used for C# development, it uses SSH to communicate back and forth between your editor and your running application.

There should be a debug profile automatically generated for you by the automation in this solution, which configures omnisharp to connect to your container via SSH.

Make sure you already started your container, select the appropriate debug profile for the container you want to attach to, and click Debug.

For more information on how remote debugging works with Omnisharp, refer to this: https://github.com/OmniSharp/omnisharp-vscode/wiki/Attaching-to-remote-processes

To see how this particular solution implements the above documentation, refer to

Commit message:

Added a section to the docs about resetting project-level automation folder.

README.md, after:

# .NET Development in a Container #

I like the idea of developing in .NET without having to install stuff on my actual laptop.  If you're a .NET Developer, you probably feel the same way.  This repo aims to showcase how somebody could do that by leveraging VS Code's Remote Development extension, a top-level Dockerfile for your workstation, and some powershell magic to get remote container debugging to work smoothly.

## Anatomy ##
* *automation*, which contains, scripts for you to run when you want to initialize a new project.
* *Dockerfile*, this is your "workstation Dockerfile", where you will use VS Code's Containers Remote Development functionality to bootstrap a brand new .net 5 workstation without installing anything new on your physical machine.
* *project folders*, all of your projects should be placed in folders at the root of this repo, as siblings to the testapi project this repo is initialized with.

`testapi` is an example of a webapi project with automation written for remote debugging into the webapi container.
SSH and VSDBG must be configured in order to allow for the "remote debugging" capabilities to work on a linux container.  Thankfully, all of the powershell in this repo handles that for you. :)

More info here: https://github.com/OmniSharp/omnisharp-vscode/wiki/Attaching-to-remote-processes

All scripts must be run in a `pwsh` shell.

## Initializing a Project ##
When adding a new project to this repo, make sure to place it at the same level as where testapi is now. From there, run `./automation/initproject.ps1`.  For example to create the testapi project, I ran: 
```
dotnet new webapi --name testapi; 
./automation/initproject.ps1 testapi;
```

`initproject` will create a debugger profile for you and add some automation scripts in the project folder.

## Interacting With a Project ##
*All of the following docs are for interacting with automation at the project level.  This means that all commands are against the automation folder in the project, and not to be confused by the top-level automation folder.*

### Building ###

To build your dotnet application and place it into a non-prod, debuggable container, run `./automation/build.ps1`.  

This will build your .net and place it in a container whose name is the same as your project folder name.

### Running ###

To run an instance of your project, run `./automation/run.ps1`.  This will run `docker run`, capture the IP address assigned to the container, and automatically update your debug profile to point to that new IP.

By default, your container's ports will be open only to your development container.  If you would like to bind the ports to one of your containers to your physical machine, change the arguments passed to `docker run` in the `./automation/run.ps1`.

A common scenario is exposing port 80 and/or 443 so that you can use your physical computer's browser to interact with your application.

For that, you would add the arguments: `-p 80:80 -p 443:443` to the `docker run` command.

For more information on exposing ports, refer to this: https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/#publish-or-expose-port--p---expose

### Debugging ###

Debugging code in a container is in many ways just like debugging code on a remote machine.  For Omnisharp, which is the VS Code Extension used for C# development, it uses SSH to communicate back and forth between your editor and your running application.

There should be a debug profile automatically generated for you by the automation in this solution, which configures omnisharp to connect to your container via SSH.

Make sure you already started your container, select the appropriate debug profile for the container you want to attach to, and click Debug.

For more information on how remote debugging works with Omnisharp, refer to this: https://github.com/OmniSharp/omnisharp-vscode/wiki/Attaching-to-remote-processes

To see how this particular solution implements the above documentation, refer to the automation/Dockerfile_debug file in your project.

### Resetting Your Automation ###

I encourage you to make modifications to any of the files in your project-level automation folder.  If at any point you feel like you screwed something up, you can reset the entire automation folder by re-running `./automation/initproject.ps1` from the top-level of this repo.
